breakingview - hada: four principl for regul the internet
london (reuter breakingview) - the giant of the internet cannot regul themselv. thei need some help. the problem ar numer, and not entir recent. the extens market power and possibl unfair competit practic by the like of alphabet’s googl, facebook and to some extent amazon ar basic new twist on familiar antitrust question. but the issu rais by big data ar quit new. inform about tast and opinion ha been gather, sold, us and misus without ani clear decis about what is fair, right or help. algorithm that bring the most action from custom often also bring them to extrem view and deviou propaganda. anonym account spread li and hate quickli, wide and unaccount. there ar tini sign that the compani have woken up to the problem. for exampl, googl’s youtub subsidiari ha promis to “begin reduc recommend of borderlin content”. howev, the industri leader ar just fiddl with the edg of a broken system. the compani cannot be expect to heal themselv. for on thing, mani corpor cultur start out wrong. amazon’s earli enthusiasm for not collect sale tax wa hardli design for promot the common good. facebook’s found etho of “move fast and break thing” is not an approach that discourag bad behaviour. even if cultur chang, there is a more basic problem. internet virtu will alwai be much less profit than appeal to moral weak. human natur be what it is, imparti new, respect us of data and clean-up stream of content just do not bring in as much monei as rage, misinform, exploit, titil and manipul. it is not realist to expect manag and sharehold of profit-seek compani to embrac corpor self-harm. regul is realli the onli wai forward, as breakingview’ jennif saba and robert cyran point out last week. thi requir new think, becaus big data and social media ar histor novelti. there ar some relev preced in the broadcast industri, but no current regul ar realli up to the job. the first step to creat these watchdog is to establish basic goal and principl. here ar four suggest for get the web to serv and unit, rather than to exploit and divid. first, recognis that the us of the internet is a privileg, not a right. the permiss to us the physic, cultur and monetari infrastructur of cyberspac come with the respons of us it to benefit the commun which provid it. everyon ha oblig, from gargantuan facebook down to polit campaign oper and twitter hate-spewer. second, neutral is inadequ. the big compani collect so much inform about peopl’s privat live and have such great influenc over their judgement and emot that a simpl hand-off approach amount to neglect. googl’s old “don’t be evil” slogan need to be replac with someth more like “be good, even if that’s expens”. in other word, the internet licenc come with someth like what lawyer call an activ duti of care. facebook, googl and the rest must try to ward off antisoci behaviour, and stop it quickli when thei fail. of cours, defin commun standard will be huge controversi. on countri’s irrespons incendiari polit express is anoth’s sacr freedom of speech. howev, mainstream journal and tradit broadcast manag to build a consensu on what wa accept in most countri. that might be harder now, but govern and compani have hardli even tri. third, internet mass data is veri differ from old-fashion inform. until a decad ago no politician, merchant or con man had anyth like the abil of todai’s big compani and their custom to put togeth mani littl piec of data to lead and mislead peopl. thi skill is often us helpfulli, but data mine inevit give the big oper and their chosen custom a potenti harm degre of commerci power and polit influenc. custom consent to sell data is not enough, sinc the averag user cannot be expect to understand the power of propaganda. regul who can see the big pictur will have to set limit. final, digit platform have an oblig to uphold new standard. it is wrong for oper to help spread fake new and conspiraci theori. it is right to provid ampl, accur and fairli present inform. to do that, internet compani will probabl have to dedic a signific portion of their cash flow to the support of journal, solid debat on current issu and even the unprofit part of the art. the big internet compani ar like to resist these principl. thei have a point, from their current perspect. truli live up to the privileg of us the internet will be truli bad for their bottom line. restrict on manipul and on the promot of antisoci idea and practic would restrict revenu. seriou monei will be requir to pai peopl to set standard, patrol the net and expel miscreant. and public servic inform doe not come for free. these restrict and oblig would slow the pace of internet innov. but after two decad of breakneck chang, thi psycholog and cultur power technolog would gain from slow down. the interest of speed, and of sharehold, should come well behind those of societi.
