breakingview - mukesh ambani’s empir will be cast in fresh light
mumbai (reuter breakingview) - data will be the new oil for relianc industri in 2020. boss mukesh ambani, stand to benefit from the 21st centuri mantra in two import wai as he carv up hi sprawl $130 billion conglomer. he would fulfil a bold promis to significantli cut debt and achiev a higher, tech-like valuat from investor. india’s richest man is overse the biggest overhaul of hi compani sinc it wa split in 2006 as part of a famili feud. a plan to be nearli free of net debt by march 2021 involv pai off some $22 billion. that should also help achiev anoth implicit goal: a punchier valuat than 15 time the earn analyst ar expect. some larg deal to achiev the goal have been sketch out. relianc is aim to pocket about $15 billion from offload a 20% stake in it refin and petrochem arm to saudi aramco. exist cashflow also will be us, along with proce from a desir sale of optic fibr asset. the real deal for 2020, howev, will be bui a stake in it recent reorganis technolog busi. ambani unveil plan in octob to hous all it digit servic, includ music, tv and cinema app, under the same roof as it upstart telecom oper jio, which ha sign up some 365 million subscrib in just three year. to make the tech hold compani more attract, jio’s debt is be shunt up to the parent of the fast-grow mobil oper with a stronger balanc sheet. in return, jio will conduct a right issu of option convert prefer share to the hold compani. the financi engin impli an enterpris of up to $70 billion for the busi, accord to clsa analyst vikash kumar jain. that wa more than 50% higher than hi sum-of-the-part estim in octob. onc it is less indebt and more neatli organis, it should be easier for investor to consid relianc as less of a sluggish oil and telecom behemoth and more like, sai, amazon, especi with it potenti to bring an enorm, mainli brick-and-mortar retail busi onlin. it won’t command the same headi valuat of 65 time expect earn, but alibaba’s 24 time is within reach for ambani.
