breakingview - review: save capit from itself
singapor (reuter breakingview) - oligopoli ar omnipres, dynam is dwindl and wage growth is miser. popular faith in capit is tarnish as a result, as franc’s “gilet jaun” protest and the elect of u.s. presid donald trump demonstr. two new polem, tim wu’s “the curs of big” and “the myth of capit,” by jonathan tepper with denis hearn, argu that the problem stem in part from a lack of competit. both focu on a u.s. antitrust reviv as a solut; policymak worldwid should listen in. monopoli ar in the headlin thank to the rise and rise of tech giant like amazon, googl and facebook. their scale bring massiv power, and financi strength allow them to swallow upstart challeng by the dozen. yet wu, a professor at columbia law school, and tepper and hearn, of research group variant percept, demonstr the problem is much wider. that’s due to nearli four decad of laissez-fair and a u.s. competit regim that focus too narrowli on consum welfar and the impact on price. from brew to bank, the statist thei cite ar damn. two compani control 90 percent of the beer american drink; five lender control over half of u.s. bank asset. fewer new firm ar start up, and the number of list u.s. compani ha roughli halv between 1996 and 2016. outsiz corpor profit ar no longer be compet awai. meanwhil, wage have stagnat. the concis “curs of big” offer a sober, compel overview of how we got here, warn of alarm consequ by draw parallel to the “gild ag” of rockefel-style trust of the late 1800s. global polici failur then concentr econom power and pave the wai for dictatorship later. wu’s titl is a nod to suprem court justic loui brandei, whose progress agenda and concern over the wider, polit impact of corpor “big” is due a reviv. that would come at the expens of the interpret of antitrust rule popularis by scholar robert bork in the late 1970s: he argu that effici and price matter more than size. the fast-pace “myth of capit” goe over some of the same ground, offer it own compel case for why the failur to reign in behemoth is so damag. tepper and hearn succe with plenti of dramat graph and tell exampl. the book open with a david dao, a doctor, be brutal drag off an overbook unit airlin flight. bad public from that now infam episod should have batter the carrier’s share price. in fact it highlight just how few choic airlin passeng have. there’s more pack in, from the mafia, brain parasit, the level movement, warren buffett and the cautionari tale of a price comparison startup squash by googl’s search hierarchi. it’s hard to disagre with either book on the inadequaci of current tool and rule. take the u.s. decis to approv at&t’s acquisit of time warner last year, which assum that media content is fungibl; or facebook’s abil to snap up rival instagram and whatsapp without interfer. corpor scale is grow even in europ, which ha been far more activ in polic the like of googl. trust bust - the process of break up big compani into smaller on is on inevit solut, as the book argu. even smaller rival should face tougher merger review. both ar right that u.s. author should scrutinis predatori price more aggress, along the line of uk competit review. a more diversifi sharehold base might also help. updat tool to assess new form of market power is tougher, howev. it’s hard to accus facebook of unfair price when it product is free – at least on the surfac - and amazon sell book for a song. cheap bill can mask other damag; but how to measur qualiti, innov or employ condit as the pool of employ shrink? at time the author shoot too wide. size alon is not a problem, and the corpor quest for effici still matter, even if it is no defenc for anti-competit behaviour. a stringent crackdown could be as damag as the excess laissez-fair attitud of recent decad, when mani margin case escap scrutini. even riskier is bring polit into antitrust decis. at such a divid time, mix polit aim with econom argument could prove a pandora’s box. yet if it prove imposs to reviv competit, the bigger question is whether the capitalist system on which big compani depend can surviv.
