breakingview - itali’s woe could spell lvmh moment for moncler
milan/london (reuter breakingview) - remo ruffini could be itali’s answer to bernard arnault in 2019. sinc rescu moncler in 2003, the entrepreneur ha rejuven the brand into a goos-down success stori. there’s a long wai to go befor he can us the grow strength of 7.5 billion euro moncler to creat anyth like arnault’s lvmh, worth 130 billion euro. but if he fanci build the first italian luxuri aggreg, now is a good time. italian luxuri is fragment and valuat ar histor cheap — the sector trade on 25 time expect earn, compar to a five-year averag of 28 time, refinitiv data show. sale at upscal shoemak tod’s have been fall sinc 2014. salvator ferragamo also struggl with revenu, and is in flux after matriarch wanda ferragamo’s death. unlist player like handbag-maker furla mai also come up for sale. u.s. and chines buyer have notic. michael kor paid a hefti $2.1 billion for struggl versac in septemb. china’s top textil player shandong ruyi and conglomer fosun snag swiss brand balli and french coutur hous lanvin respect. still, the rise of an eu-sceptic govern in rome embrac shaki budget polici could put a brake on global buyer enthusiasm. that give ruffini an opportun to consid go beyond moncler. the italian is do someth right: sale jump by 15 percent in 2017 and should do so again in 2018. hi skill could be deploi to battl the gener shift and chang consum habit undermin some stori italian brand. investor who bought moncler share when it debut in 2013 have seen total return doubl, beat all list peer bar herm. at 35 percent, moncler’s ebitda margin ar second onli to the fame french handbag maker among luxuri player in europ. and ruffini is no stranger to m&a: in octob hi famili vehicl archiv bought a 49 percent stake in small italian fashion brand attico. lvmh and peer kere and richemont ar so shape becaus their size bring economi of scale and diversif benefit. although moncler’s flagship jacket ar in vogu, acquir leather good or watch could hedg against fickl tast. if ruffini can overcom italian luxuri’s tradit rivalri and get second-gener potenti seller onsid, the path to arnault-style statu could be hi.
