breakingview - soni's turnaround will be an activist cast call
hong kong (reuter breakingview) - the pressur is on for kenichiro yoshida to deliv a bold perform in 2019. sinc take the rein in april, the soni boss ha boost earn at japan’s $61 billion movi-to-video-game group. but the long-time compani veteran need to shed a loss-make handset unit and spin off the chip busi, among other thing. ani reluct to move quickli will see hedg fund make a cameo in soni’s remak. yoshida’s predecessor sold the laptop busi, slash job, streamlin busi and end a streak of heavi loss. now soni’s cash-cow playstat divis, as well as it music and movi unit ar power sale and earn. the tokyo-base compani expect a record annual oper profit of 870 billion yen, or $7.8 billion, for the current fiscal year. sharehold should be pleas, but far from impress. sinc yoshida took over, soni ha deliv a 6 percent total return, includ reinvest dividend, compar to neg 11 percent at japan’s benchmark topix index, as of dec. 20. even so, the stock trade at an unglamor 12 time forward earn, less than soni’s own two-year averag and well below the 16 time multipl command by video game rival nintendo. on wai to fix the drag would be to make a quick exit from smartphon. soni is scale down that busi and write off some asset, yet it remain commit to hit a 2020 profit target for the unit. anoth dare and welcom move would be to spin off the fast-grow semiconductor divis, which ha question strateg valu next to playstat monei-maker like “god of war” and a music catalogu that span artist from beyonc to queen. yoshida would be foolish to hold back. if left unaddress, the valuat gap could invit a new star. soni doesn’t have the protect of a singl larg sharehold. meanwhil, activist investor like paul singer’s elliott and hong kong-base oasi ar take more interest in underperform japanes compani as the countri take a more sharehold-friendli turn. loud voic have alreadi been heard at toshiba, olympu, and seven & i. hedg fund will close watch yoshida’s next act.
